Whitepaper v0.3


A Decentralized Terrestrial Satellite Oracle Network (DtsON)


Salvador Salcedo
July, 2022

Table of Contents
1. Introduction
2. Inspiration
3. Technical Details
   1. Oracle Network Architectures
      1. Basic Request Model
      2. Decentralized Data Model
      3. Off-Chain Reporting
   2. Existing Data-Feeds
   3. Consensus
   4. Iris DON Overview
      1. Dapps
      2. Iris DON
      3. Sequential DONs
4. Business
   1. Tokenomics
   2. Equity
5. Applications and Future
   1. Dapps
      1. TBA: Carbon Tokenization
      2. TBA: Global Crop Insurance
      3. TBA: Global Disaster Insurance
      4. TBA: Ship Oil Spill Insurance 
   2. Research Lab and Distributed Satellite Constellation
6. References
7. Glossary


Disclaimer: This is a living document and is still being revised as new ideas are formed and executed.
Introduction


Iris is a Decentralized Terrestrial Satellite Oracle Network or DtsON. It will serve as the network that exists through the communication between the nodes working together to determine the provenance of the requested satellite imagery. Like current oracle networks, such as those built on Chainlink, Iris will allow developers to create new decentralized applications, or dapps, that were impractical or impossible before.  


Inspiration


Iris was born out of the desire to combine space and blockchain technologies together in a single solution or product. Cryptocurrency markets and DeFi as a whole are global markets where the action never stops. Assets like Bitcoin and Ethereum exist in extremely lively environments. Their prices have changed rapidly in the past and changes can typically be measured in seconds. For everyday people to interact with others through dapps, those services need to agree on what the prices of the said assets are. Oracles and the networks they comprise act to produce accurate external, real-world data for blockspace-bound smart contract logic. However, the applications of oracle networks extend far beyond the accurate reporting of Bitcoin prices. Iris aims to be the first project to extend oracle functionality beyond the use of single numerical values


Of course oracles aren’t new. Chainlink is the largest oracle network project and has arguably contributed the most to the development of oracle networks. As of May 2022, the TVL of projects that depend on the Chainlink network’s successful operation or Total Value Secured (TVS) is $38.3bn. That is 52% of all the value secured by oracle networks. It is no surprise then, that their oracle networks have allowed web3’s most popular defi applications to maintain accurate price data for years now.


They do so by creating and distributing software, known as a Chainlink Client, which runs on a user's computer and turns it into a Node. Nodes are the computers that comprise oracle networks and perform the computations required to report accurate data back to dapps and smart contracts. Dapps and their services are part of the DeFi world that never sleeps because their openness makes their use constant and ubiquitous. While they have developed ways for committees of nodes, or oracle networks, to reach consensus on the value of a single asset, they have yet to produce a way to do so for images. 


Satellites, for reasons we will discuss shortly, are a great source for imagery data to use in decentralized applications. Therefore, satellite imagery is a good data-type for oracle networks to verify the provenance of. One of the biggest reasons for doing so is that the infrastructure to request satellite imagery, as long as you’re willing to wait a day or two, already exists from companies like Maxar, Planet and BlackSky. Of course these services aren’t free. Thankfully, the nodes in an oracle network are paid for participating and it is assumed that the node’s reward will cover the service fee. Another advantage is that all satellites inherently have a similar view of the target area. With the correct post-processing, it would be easy for nodes to produce similar images thereby making it easier to detect similarity or lack thereof. 


A DtsON as described above would create receipts in the form of hashes of what a part of the Earth looked like at a certain time. A blockchain in this case would serve as the database where the hashes will be publicly stored as long as the blockchain exists. 


A DtsON like Iris, and the photos it processes, will allow developers to build other Decentralized Oracle Networks or DONs, to distill information from the images and ultimately send simpler data for Smart Contracts (SCs) to react to. This paradigm of chaining DONs, like Iris, together to simplify real world data into actionable data points, like price data, could be the way future Decentralized Applications (dapps) are built. Iris will be the first solution to use a Byzantine Fault Tolerant (BFT) consensus mechanism to verify the similarity and therefore validity or provenance, of satellite imagery.




Technical Details


Oracle Network Architectures


An oracle network is a group of computers, or Nodes, that each fetch data representing a real-world attribute from one or more data sources. For Iris, we can have DONs that have access to multiple satellite imagery providers like Maxar and Planet Labs, or DONs that compare images of one constellation over a short period of time. For reasons discussed below, the features of the terrain will allow the DONs to compute the image’s similarities. The oracle network does so by collecting each image from participants and using a comparison algorithm to determine which ones can and cannot inform the final value. Before we dive into Iris’ consensus mechanism we will explore existing oracle paradigms.


* Basic Request Model (BRM)
        
In the beginning…


* Decentralized Data Model (DDM)


A good example to convey how DONs of the Decentralized Data Model variety work is Chainlink’s Bitcoin price DON that reports the price of BTC/USD. As of May 10th, it has 31 nodes and agrees on a new aggregate or average value every minute or so. In a DON such as this one, each node reports the price of Bitcoin in dollars to an Aggregation Smart Contract (ASC). In addition, they must deposit some tokens, in this case LINK tokens, to serve as a deposit to be burned or returned based on their honesty. In the case that the node acts honestly they will be rewarded a small amount of LINK coins for participating and their deposit gets saved for the next round of aggregation. The rewards and penalties therefore serve as economic incentives for people to run oracle software on their computers and report data honestly. Once the data is submitted by all members of the network, otherwise known as a committee, the ASC finds the statistical average and defines it as the value of Bitcoin. Depending on the DON, the ASC might decide to penalize nodes that submitted data found to be too statistically dissimilar to the aggregate. In this case, the ASC will burn their deposited LINK. The value determined by the ASC can then be read by developers and integrated into their decentralized applications. This type of DON architecture is known as the Decentralized Data Model.


* Off-Chain Reporting Model (OCRM)


Since the release of Chainlink’s DDM, they have come up with a more gas-efficient variant named the Off-Chain Reporting Model. The main difference between the OCRM and DDM is that the computation and independent node reporting happen off-chain with only one report with the final answer being submitted on-chain. This is all thanks to OCRM adopting a peer-to-peer or P2P network separate from the main-chain the OCRM DON runs on. It works as follows. First, a node creates the P2P network with all the other nodes that are interested in being a part of it. Then, each node fetches information from a data-source and performs any number of computations on the data as decided by the DON. Now instead of the nodes submitting to an Aggregation Smart Contract (ASC) on-chain, the P2P network randomly selects a node, known as the Leader Node, to act as an off-chain version of the ASC. The leader node then collects the signatures of all participating nodes, their reported values and compares them to find an average and therefore aggregate value. If some values sit too far away from the average, perhaps a Standard Deviation or two, it may be considered a dishonest result. Finally, the selected node creates a single report containing the DON’s decided upon value and the signature of every participating node. The report is then sent on-chain to be recorded and used by developers. Off-Chain Reporting Model DONs, like Decentralized Data Model DONs, also reward honest nodes while penalizing dishonest nodes as decided by the comparison mechanism.


Due to the complexity required to compute the aggregate of images, Iris will be built using the OCR model. This way both the nodes and aggregator nodes can perform the necessary computations off-chain inexpensively compared to if they were done on-chain. 


Data-Feeds


1. Price Feeds


The most popular data-feeds are single value numerical values representing the worth of one asset versus another. For example, ETH/USD is a data-feed whose value represents the exchange ratio between Ethereum and the US Dollar and is used by lots of dapps. Feeds such as ETH/USD are created by aggregating the value of ETH/USD from different exchanges and markets. This includes centralized ones like Binance and Coinbase but also decentralized ones like Uniswap. This by far is the most popular data-type. So much so that new oracle projects reporting price data are being created without much in the way of differentiation. 


2. Non-Financial Data


Aside from financial data, DONs can also verify any type of real-world attribute or data-point. This includes weather data, sport outcomes, flight arrival/departure times, etc. For reasons unknown to me it seems that these data types haven't enjoyed as much use as price feeds. 


Most contemporary oracle networks that are formed only verify single numerical values. This is because smart contracts can only act upon simple or what I like to call Smart-Contract-Ready Data to save gas. Smart-Contract-Ready Data is a loose concept meant to describe real-world data that a smart contract can ingest and use to carry out decisions in a computationally efficient way. Iris will be the first project to verify the provenance of satellite imagery and offer a richer data type in the form of satellite images for new dapps to use.


Consensus


Iris nodes will be capable of fetching images, performing the SIFT Computer Vision algorithm on said images, creating cryptographically signed reports on a P2P off-chain network and reporting a single report to a blockchain network. We therefore have to create a way for the Leader Nodes to compute similarity and express it as a mathematical construct or numerical value. In other words, we have to devise a robust way for our DONs to determine image similarity using math. Luckily, there are a lot of people out there that are good at computer science and mathematics that devote their time to building out these algorithms.


First proposed by David Lowe in 2004, the SIFT or Scale Invariant Feature Transform algorithm is the perfect first candidate for the basis of Iris’ comparison algorithm. It works by first ingesting black and white images and searching for features or keypoints. These keypoints are found by scanning the images and looking for changes in image pixel intensity. Depending on the direction scanned, the SIFT algorithm we will use for Iris from the open source library OpenCV, will find a direction associated with a region where 


pixels are changing intensity. It is essentially creating blobs and assigning them to pixels as it scans the image. The scale of the blob and the resolution of the images change as it applies Gaussian blurs of high and high sigma allowing the algorithm to find interesting points or features at various scales in all directions. 
  

Farms and orbital landscapes are typically feature rich with displays of life below. The curves and corners of the roads, houses, orchards, groves, forests, they all contribute to the features of the scene. The SIFT algorithm picks up on these features and creates keypoints which then form into descriptors. They are vectors whose scale in higher dimensions correspond to the change in intensity of the image in that direction. The implementation of SIFT that we use has 128 dimensional vectors. This means it can detect changes keypoints in 128 directions.


The Leader Node of the committee of Regular Nodes uses the SIFT algorithm to not only detect the features, keypoints but also compare descriptors. The images of the same Area of Interest (AoI) will generate the same keypoints and therefore descriptors. When comparing two images, the leader node therefore will receive higher scores for very similar images than for ones of different areas. The SIFT algorithm itself is very robust and can give us a useful and compute-effective way to measure image similarity.


When the Leader and by extension, the DON finds the image that is most similar to all the others, this image represents the Average Scenario of the AoI. That is, it represents the state that one is most likely to find the AoI around the time requested. The advantages in time flexibility and data variability when using SIFT and images as a data source are several.


1. Multiple images: When finding the Average Scenario of an Area of Interest, the Nodes request many images of the same area. They may vary in time, brightness, weather conditions, etc. If the Nodes ever chose an image that has the most similar features to all other images but it has concealed or difficult to extract application-specific data, we may be able to extract the concealed data from the other images. It would probably be difficult for an application specific DON to extract harvest information if it is raining or thick clouds are overhead. It may be necessary to wait or use information from the next day for example.


2. Data Rich Images: A single image may contain multiple data points for use in different dapps. That is, users and the companies building on top of Iris can use one image for different purposes. Ultimately resulting in price savings for other users or dapps since the data would exist on an AWS DB or IPFS server and would not need to be requested, processed and extracted.


Lecture Slides on SIFT: https://cave.cs.columbia.edu/Statics/monographs/Edge%20Detection%20FPCV-2-1.pdf


Iris will operate as a DON with three kinds of nodes: Regular, Bootstrap and Leader nodes.
1. Bootstrap Node: A node that connects to Normal Nodes, establishes connections between them and begins an OCR round. 
2. Regular Node: A node that acts as a web server to fetch satellite imagery through authenticated API calls.
3. Leader Node: A node that collects image data from Regular Nodes. It then performs computer vision powered image similarity comparisons and creates a general report capturing the Area of Interest’s Average Scenario.


The consensus mechanism Iris will employ is known as an Off-Chain Report (OCR) network. They use an off-chain Peer-to-Peer (P2P) network to communicate before creating one report to submit on-chain. Because it is a network where node operators vote on the state of the Area of Interest (AoI), in the form of a report, at the time requested by providing said imagery it is helpful to think of our algorithmic approach as providing the best guess of the state of AoI. 


It is critical to understand that we may create representations of these states on blockchains like Ethereum because they are global state machines. When deployed, smart contracts perform changes on the state of user’s and their associated wallets. These wallets however can also hold information beyond transactional data because most EVM compatible blockchains like Ethereum are general purpose blockchains. That is, any reasonable computation can be performed by an Ethereum node and participate in the Ethereum Virtual Machine or EVM on behalf of users and their wallets. 


Because smart contracts are like scripts from other computer languages, you can write smart contracts to execute functions under certain conditions. Those conditions can and will relate to elements of the real world. The conditions can range from the mundanity of asset prices and ratios to disaster insurance applications. If a hurricane blows through New Orleans and destroys a families home, a DON would be able to recognize the house before and after to understand there has been a disaster and issue a payout. 


By being critical of the data our network participants exchange we can better adapt Iris to handle malicious actors, their attacks and any inaccurate information. The Average Scenario of a location is therefore the best estimate we have for an image of the AoI requested.


Steps:
1. Bootstrap Node finds other Iris nodes looking to participate in a committee of nodes for one round. The logic is processed through a smart contract by which users will be rewarded. 
2. All nodes are required to stake IRIS tokens in order to participate.
3. The smart contract then picks a random node from the committee and assigns it as the Leader Node. This aggregator node sends requests to the other nodes in the committee. All of whom at this point are considered Regular Nodes.
4. The Regular Nodes fetch the satellite imagery requested and generate their hash. They create a final report off-chain that includes the image hash, database web address of the image and the Regular Node’s  signature.
5. The Leader Node receives the reports from all the other nodes in the committee. It fetches the images from the web addresses provided in the reports. The images are compared against each other and results in the capturing of the area’s Average Scenario.
   1. The Regular Nodes that provided images close to the Average Scenario are more likely to be honest because they were close to the majority of all other images. Therefore the smart contract rewards the regular nodes.
   2. The Regular Nodes whose images are statistically dissimilar to the Average Scenario have their stakes tokens burnt as punishment. Again the smart contract executes the penalty.
6. The Leader Node creates a report which includes the hash and the web address of the image chosen as the Average Scenario, along with the regular and aggregator nodes signatures. The report is sent to the requesting smart contract and recorded on-chain. The Leader Node is rewarded extra for performing the computation.


Iris DON Overview


The Iris-powered dapp paradigm will be made up of five major parts. The dapp frontend, executable or operator contract, data distilling DON, the Iris DON and the imagery data source. 


They operate together in the following steps:
1. A user interacts with the dapp through a traditional web 2.0 frontend web app.
2. An executable or operator contract receives the request for information from the data specified on the frontend. Sends requests to data distilling DON for actionable data.
3. Data Distilling DON or DD-DON requests image data from Iris DON.
4. Iris DON nodes request imagery data on Area of Interest (AoI) from satellite constellations.
5. Iris DON compares node images, chooses the image closest to all others to be hashed, saves image on database and image hash on blockchain.
6. The DD-DON receives image hash from Iris DON and verifies the hash provided. The DD-DON’s nodes compute, compare and produce a single-value real-world attribute - otherwise known as Actionable Data and send it to the Executable.
7. The Executable is the Chainlink 2.0 whitepaper’s definition of a smart contract whose actions change pre programmed states - otherwise known as a smart contract(s). The executable relays the state changes over to the frontend to inform the user.  
  



1. Dapps


Of all conceptualizations of EVM and the Ethereum blockchain, none is more helpful than that of the state machine. The Ethereum network is essentially one large database or ledger known as a blockchain that holds information about the state of all participants in the network. These participants are represented by wallets and principally referred to on the network by their wallet's address. The wallets may be personal wallets managed by real people or part of smart contracts managed by other smart contracts. 


Smart contracts are programs that run on the Ethereum state machine and execute changes to the states of wallets. A change to the state of the Ethereum state machine is carried out by executing a transaction. These transactions are codified through smart contracts and are executed by special types of network participants named Miners. Miners bundle up these transactions and have the opportunity to submit them to the Blockchain. It is easy to see why this technology lends itself easily to computations of financial transactions. 


A dapp is a collection of software or software stack that performs a computation on a state-space computer on the behalf of a user. In DeFi, these dapps are used to change the states of users’ wallets in the form of financial products and tools.


Among the many popular DeFi products and services that exist, very few rely heavily on data generated solely off-chain. Because such applications rely on data that must be 100% accurate all the time, trust is the most essential element an oracle service can provide. Thankfully, images are a data type that humans understand very well without needing much context. Dapp developers can easily choose to show the images their dapps are using to inform the smart contracts. 




2. Iris DON


The heart of the project will be the Iris DON. It is intended to be an infrastructure layer for dapps. It will receive requests from a data distilling DON or DD-DON and establish the provenance of satellite imagery so that the information kept within them can be used for decentralized applications. 


In the MVP’s most ideal form, the Iris DON nodes will be able to:
1. Fetch satellite images through constellation service APIs off-chain
2. Submit the images for comparison to an OCR committee
3. Compute satellite image similarity
4. Reward and/or punish DON participants
5. Produce image data hash 
6. Store the hash on-chain
7. Store the image in a decentralized database solution
8. Return the results to the requesting DD-DON.         


3. Sequentials DONS


Decentralized applications or dapps built upon Iris will follow a paradigm different from other dapps for receiving actionable data. Actionable data is data that is ready to be processed or consumed by a smart contract to inform a decision. Typically these decisions take the form of financial transactions. The reason we have to consider the consumability of data in the first place, is because smart contracts do not perform complex computations cost effectively. These are caused by inherent limitations to current blockchain networks. While these limitations might generally be overcome soon by the Ethereum foundation’s first major redesign of the Ethereum network since its invention, we must still move the bulk of computations off-chain.   




  

The idea is for decentralized applications to incorporate a secondary DON to perform specialized application-specific computations. In the example of a Carbon Sequestering Market, which we explore more in-depth later on, the secondary DON first receives a satellite image. It is forwarded by the Iris DON as a hash code to the secondary DON along with a distributed database (IPFS) address of the image at the request of the dapp controlling smart contract. The secondary DON then instructs its nodes to compute the images hash and compare it from that recorded by Iris. If they are equivalent, the secondary DON nodes calculate the carbon sequestering potential of that land. The nodes may use different ML models to come up with a result but at the end a single-value numerical result is produced. In this case, it is the number of tons of carbon sequestered per year of the requested plot of land or how many tons of C02/Year/km². By using a similar statistical data comparison mechanism to that of Chainlink’s price-feeds, we can calculate averages and reward honest nodes for their contributions. 


The secondary DON then reports the aggregate value generated by the nodes to the dapp’s operating or controlling smart contract. In effect, the secondary DON is distilling valuable information from a more complicated form of data. This is why I like to refer to these DONs as Data Distilling DONs. They essentially distill actionable data - data that can be consumed and computed cost-effectively upon by smart contracts.


From a dapp developer’s perspective, when a user submits a request to perform an Iris dependent function of the dapp, the dapp will request an image from Iris. After generating the satellite imagery requested, Iris will send the data to a dapp specific DON. This new DON will be used to extract actionable data or distill other data-types from to be used by other DONs down the line. 


Ultimately, Iris will act to provide the information rich data in the form of satellite images. Dapps on the other hand are responsible for building DONs and other decentralized computation systems to extract smart contract actionable data. 


Using sequential DONs will allow all computation aspects of Iris and Iris dependent dapps to be performed in a decentralized fashion. 




Business 


Tokenomics


Iris is a web3 first project. This means we will attempt to do everything in the fashion of other successful oracle projects and strive to provide the most decentralized, permissionless service possible.


Similar to Chainlink’s token model, the plan is to mint 100 Billion IRIS tokens. We will hold an IDO in the future and sell around 35 Billion to raise the initial funds we need for our project. Then 30 Billion will be held for the team/project and the remaining 35 Billion will go towards unminted Iris tokens to be minted and rewarded to Iris oracle nodes. 


The Iris token will be used similar to how LINK is used today in Chainlink's oracle networks. In order for nodes to partake in the Iris' DON, they will have to acquire and stake some IRIS. The nodes will also be paid for the services in the form of IRIS tokens, again how Chainlink does. One thing this crypto economic system does is create demand for our token, which in turn gives worth to the team’s IRIS tokens. 


In addition to an IDO, we would also be willing to create private rounds of fundraising using the IRIS token. In this scenario, a private investor would receive the rights to a portion of IRIS tokens to be minted at a future IDO or centralized exchange token listing. 


The IRIS token represents one way that we may raise capital. Though IRIS will always be an integral part of the DON and the Iris Protocol, an IDO isn’t the only way our team can raise capital.


Equity


A company called, Iris Protocol LLC, will be formed to represent the group of people developing Iris and related dapps. 


For context, the organization that founded Chainlink is called Smart Contract. They were founded in 2014 - much before Chainlink had an actual product. Today, the technology behind Chainlink seems to now be created by Chainlink Labs, the successor so-to-speak of the firm Smart Contract. In a similar vein, Iris Protocol LLC, will be incorporated as a for-profit business since we will be looking to appreciate the value of its owner’s shares. However this will not detract from our mission of creating open-source technology for others to iterate and build upon.


The purpose of creating a company to represent the Iris protocol and related technologies is to create another avenue to secure investment. It is no secret that crypto markets are volatile and that is especially true for new tokens. In addition to this all world markets, crypto included, have suffered recently. Therefore, it may be unwise to fundraise publicly in an IDO in a bear market and equity could prove to be a tool to fundraise capital.


In the end I hope to spin-off the Iris Protocol to the community; similar to other open source projects like Celo, Aave and Maker DAO. The decentralized nature of these new community-based organizations makes the technology they build, and care after, more resilient to attack or mismanagement. Ultimately DAOs will prove to be enduring forms of governance for projects, such as the Iris Protocol, and many more things to come.




Team


Salvador Salcedo, Founder


I have been working and learning about BT since early 2014 when I built my first computer and used it to mine Ethereum and Dogecoin. I learned a lot about computer hardware, the mining software and infrastructure and how blockchains in theory worked. My journey in BT continued as the crypto cycles drew me in and out of the world of crypto like a tide. Finally once I was at university I decided to work in BT and crypto economics since I was already versed in it and I had years of classroom software engineering experience. A bit before this decision however, 2020 to be exact, I fell in love with another field of tech - Space Technology (ST). 


Since 2020, I have watched videos on SpaceX’s work on their Starship project as dedicated fans peered into their construction facility with their long, bulky cameras at least once a week. My curiosity turned to passion after a few weeks and I joined Space Enterprise at Berkeley - Berkeley’s Liquid Rocket Team. In my 1.5 years in SEB I have built the algorithm that detects rocket apogee using a Kalman Filter, created the closed-loop camera system we use to monitor our engine during firing and as a business team member raised over $10k in a semester among many other things.  




Timeline


Sept 20th, Web3athon Conclusion


Applications & Future


Iris is an infrastructure protocol. Thus the end user is never meant to see or interact with it. The technology behind Iris is nothing new. Blockchain, machine learning, image comparison algorithms and the other technologies behind Iris already exist, they just haven’t been combined together in this way before. Because oracle networks and the ways applications depend on them might not be well know by the average reader, I have listed some of my favorite dapp ideas one can build on top of Iris. 


Kokiri: Voluntary Carbon-Sequestering Asset Tokenization and Market


1. The Situation 
It is no secret that the Earth is warming up due to the over-accumulation of greenhouse gasses in the atmosphere. For years now activists have been sounding the alarm on the dangers of global warming. One of the things to come out of our new awareness and effort to slow, or optimistically reverse, the warming of the earth are carbon credits. 


One carbon credit represents one 1 ton of CO2 removed from the atmosphere. They are created when an individual’s or organization’s project reduces, avoids, destroys or captures carbon. Typically, mostly companies but individuals also buy carbon credits to offset their own emissions. There exist two types of carbon credit markets: voluntary and involuntary.


The voluntary carbon credits are bought by people or organizations that want to reduce their carbon footprint for any number of reasons. Certain industries, especially heavy polluters, have restrictions on how much carbon they can emit over a year. These companies are therefore forced to either reduce their carbon emissions or buy carbon credits to offset what they released. Carbon credits bought under the ¿previous circumstance are known as involuntary carbon credits.


2. The Problem 
While the carbon credit markets have continued to grow as we realize the error of our ways, its current incarnation is far from perfect.


First, there is no way for the entity buying carbon credits to verify that each ton of CO2 the credits represent was actually removed from the atmosphere. Therefore the issuing of carbon credits by individuals, organizations and governments is susceptible to fraud through every pair of hands the credits passed through before reaching the buyer. 


Another issue is that the current carbon credit markets are difficult to access and assess. Different markets across different countries have very different prices for their carbon credits. If the current system was truly open and available to everyone then there wouldn’t be such large differences in price due to the arbitrage opportunities the difference creates. If an individual wants to buy a carbon credit, they don’t go to an exchange like you do for stocks and crypto. One has to trust the organizations creating and selling the carbon credits are being honest. 


Finally, it is difficult for people to create carbon credits on their own. Today, if someone wants to create and sell carbon credits based on a personal carbon reduction project, they have to reach out to an organization that buys it off of them. 




3. The Solution 


With Iris, developers could use the imagery provided by the DtsON to extract information on forestry and agricultural efforts to capture carbon and therefore mint tokens representing those assets.


Developers could build a user-facing dapp, that requires 4 pairs of coordinates detailing the Area of Interest (AoI), the type of vegetation grown, verification that they own the AoI and the gas required for the dapp. Once a user submits the information required, their request will be sent from the dapp to Iris. Iris nodes then fetch and decide which image is closest to all the others and sends it back to the dapp. The dapp would then use their own OCRM DON where the nodes run a data science or machine learning model off-chain to distill a figure, such as vegetation percentage, from the image returned by Iris. Once the aggregate value is decided and the aggregation round ends their DON then send the aggregate to the dapp’s smart contract. The dapps smart contract then uses this numerical data to decide what action to take. In this scenario, the contract has to decide how many tokens representing carbon sequestering assets to mint. 


A solution such as the one described above would not only get rid of the fraud and inaccessibility of the current carbon credit market but create an entirely new global decentralized market. 






Global Crop Insurance


1. The Situation


Since the dawn of civilization, humanity has had to deal with poor weather causing poor harvests. Through our history we have devised ways to counter poor harvests through communal grain storage, trade and finally crop insurance. 


2. The Problem


Farmers in most developed countries today can buy crop insurance from organizations that offer those services. However, many farmers in developing countries do not have access to crop insurance for one reason or another. Often farmers can’t afford the insurance, live in areas not covered by any companies or the crop insurance companies won’t serve them since it wouldn’t be profitable enough to do so. 


With the majority of the world’s farmers being among the poorest people in the world, a solution to the current issues with crop insurance would go a long way in helping the hands that feed us.


3. The Solution


With Iris, developers can create a dapp where farmers can sign up for crop insurance using 4 coordinate points representing the AoI, proof they own AoI, what type of crop they’re crowing, the premium and claim amount and the gas required. Assuming the user pays their premium on time, every monththe dapp can request Iris to acquire an image of the AoI. Once Iris sends back the image of the AoI, the dapp devs feed it to an application specific DON that determines the moisture in the ground and sends it to the dapp’s smart contract. 


If the farmer submits a claim, the smart contract will go through the data fed it by the application specific DON and determine whether or not to payout.
Because it is a dapp, anyone with an internet connection and enough money to pay for gas and the premiums would be able to take out a crop insurance policy and receive a payout in the event of poor harvest.


Research Lab and Distributed Constellations


An active barrier to the successful implementation of Iris is the accessibility of satellite imagery. Though it is true that some companies sell satellite imagery as a service, access to these services is relatively limited to individuals. Therefore in the spirit of decentralization and accessibility, the Iris team's legal entity/company will also create and launch compact imagery satellites with the intent of selling the imagery collected by them to Iris node operators. Thankfully, cubesats can be made for as little as a couple thousand dollars. Launches for cubesats on rideshare missions also offer competitive pricing for launching small cubesats. Such endeavors would easily be within the reach of an organization like Chainlink with their millions of dollars in funding from their LINK tokens and business dealings.


Another goal of this future project will be to provide the resources necessary for other organizations, such as traditional business or DAOs, to build and launch their own imaging cubesats. Having multiple open image data services will be instrumental in securing the decentralization of Iris and will prove higher levels of confidence in our DON's data sources.




References


1. Defi Llama. https://defillama.com/oracles [Online; Accessed 5/7/22]
2. Chainlink Decentralized Data Model. https://docs.chain.link/docs/architecture-decentralized-model/ [Online; Accessed 4/27/22]
3. Chainlink OCR Model. https://docs.chain.link/docs/off-chain-reporting/. [Online; Accessed 4/27/22]
4. Baeldung CS. https://www.baeldung.com/cs/image-comparison-algorithm [Online; Accessed 5/1/22]




Glossary


* Actionable Data: Describes real-world data that a smart contract can ingest and use to carry out decisions in a computationally efficient way.
* Byzantine Fault Tolerant: A description assigned to a mechanism designed to guarantee the authenticity of communications between honest and potentially adversarial participants. 
* Cubesat: A class of miniaturized satellite based around a form factor consisting of 10 cm cubes.
* Decentralized Applications: Web applications that users access through the internet that rely on smart contracts and underlying blockchain technology to execute an economic transaction or function.
* Node: A computer that runs specialized software meant only to request and send data from a real-world data-source.
* Oracle: A node/computer that participates in providing data to a larger set of nodes known as an oracle network.
* Provenance: The origin of data and the process by which it arrived at the database.